>> Scott Moss: Starting with GraphQL
on the frontend, a couple things.
One, you need a GraphQL
server to interact with.
And I'm going to put quotes there, because
nowadays you actually don't even need
a server, a GraphQL server,
to use GraphQL on the front end.
It's pretty crazy,
you can actually use GraphQL on
the frontend to proxy a REST API.
And as far as your frontend is concerned,
it's just writing queries.
So there's so many ways to interact with
GraphQL without even fully diving into
GraphQL, and
rebuilding out your whole infrastructure.
So, there's a lot of ways.
We're not doing that.
We already have a GraphQL server built
out for us and we're gonna be using that.
You don't have to write any code, or
interact with that, it's done for you.
I'll just show you the command to run
when we get to the exercises to start
that server up.
And we're gonna focus on the front end.
So with that being said,
let's just dive in in these slides.
So the first thing I wanna talk about is
queries and mutations from the client.
So if you're familiar with GraphQL on
the back end, we know that when we
create a schema, which is part of
the server that we create, we must,
at minimum,
we have to create a type definition.
Well, actually,
we don't even need a type definition.
At minimum, we need just a query type and
one field that resolves to some type of
value, whether it's a scholar or a type
definition, object type that you created.
So that's a query on the backend, and
mutations are pretty much the same.
It's a mutation type, you create some
fields, they result in some values.
Now queries and mutations from the client,
when I talk about that, I'm not actually
talking about us creating mutation
types and query types on the front end.
What I'm actually referring to is
since we have those queries and
mutations defined on the backend,
we're now going to
issue requests to actually execute
those queries and mutations.
And that's what I mean by queries and
mutations on the frontend.
So it's not defining them,
it's actually using them.
But they're also called queries and
mutations.
There is a section that we might get to
where you can actually define queries and
mutations on the frontend.
Cuz you can pretty much run GraphQL
anywhere, not just the server side.
You can also run and
execute GraphQL on the frontend,
which is something we'll probably get to.
Let's pull up GraphQL Playground.
So this is GraphQL Playground.
This is a tool that we use a lot
to interact with GraphQL APIs.
If you're familiar with
GraphQL on the server side,
you've probably used this to
build up some APIs before.
If not, like I said, this is a tool, you
can point it to any GraphQL server, and
it's basically going to load
up the schema for you and
give you some really nice documentation
and syntax to interact with that API.
So right now I'm pointing it to
a public Rick and Morty GraphQL API.
Actually just found this one.
I think it's pretty legit.
Rick and Morty's one my most
favorite cartoons, can't wait for
season four in November, I think.
It's going to be legit.
But this is a public API, so we're going
to use this one to interact and show some
of the capabilities as far as querying and
writing mutations on the client side.
So just to give you a walk
around of the playground.
On the left,
we have what a client would issue.
So this is something from a client, this
is something your React app would have or
your Vue app.
These are the queries and
mutations that you would write.
And then on the right side here
are the results from the server.
And that’s basically how it goes.
Down here we have this thing
called query variables.
So we’re going to talk
about that later today.
And then we have HEADERS if we need
to modify some headers to send along
the request.
If this API needed authentication,
this is where you would probably
add the authentication.
Up here we have tabs
where we can store state.
All this gets persisted in local storage,
so you can just keep track of this.
Even if you refresh,
your tab should still be there.
Prettify cleans up your query.
If it looks like crap you can just hit
Prettify and it'll clean it up for you.
And then history just shows you
any history as far as queries and
mutations that you have already ran.
And you can click on that and
it'll take you to that point, and
that also gets persisted in local storage.
And over here,
it's just some settings to change.
The themes [INAUDIBLE]
which is really cool.
So a lot going on in this playground app.
Fun fact, this playground app is
a implementation on top of something
called Graphiql,
a play on words using an I, Graphiql.
Graph, Q, Graph, I-Q-L, Graphiql.
This was built by, I'm pretty sure
this was built by the Facebook team.
And GraphQL playground is basically
like a version, someone forked it and
built GraphQL Playground on top of this.
So Graphiql is like the first thing,
and people still use it, but
GraphQL Playground is like a more
extended version on top of it.
So they both kind of do the same thing.
But you can check out Graphiql,
if you're interested in that as well.
We're going to stick
with GraphQL Playground,
because I just like the way it looks.
Honestly, it just looks great.
So we're going to do that.
Any questions on GraphQL Playground or
Graphiql, any of that stuff?
And depending on the server you use,
you get this for free.
You don't have to set this up.
If you're using something like
Apollo server on the back end or
most server GraphQL frameworks
have this built in.
You just do a get request to your,
by default you do a get request to
your GraphQL server and this shows up.
That's it.
Sometimes you can put it on another route,
/docs, /playground,
/graphiql, whatever you want.
But most times you just do a get request
to whatever your GraphQL server is,
and it'll just render this app for
you by default.
So, no more swagger, let's get this.
Okay, cool.
Enough talking about that,
let's get in to the query.